# eCLIP_PUM1_PC
To identify RNA targets bound by PUMILIO1 (PUM1) protein in various tissues, we have established a protocol based on Van Nostrand etal 2016's paper to analyze RNA target sequences from eCLIP experiments. We combined and modified softwares and scripts (python and Perl) from differen labs and established an in-house pipeline for bioinformatic analysis of eCLIP experiments on multiple RNA binding proteins (PUM1, PUM2, DAZL and BOULE) in different mouse tissues and human cell lines.
Computer plateform: our bioinformatic analysis server has a E5-2639v4 CPU, 128G, GPU (GTX 1080Ti). Operating system is Linux (Ubuntu 16.04).
Tools used in CLIP analysis: QC on raw sequenced data-FastQC v0.11.8, Pretreatment of raw sequence data-Cutadapt v1.18 and gscripts 1.1, Removal of PCR duplictes and normalization of input-gscript 1..1, Removal of repetitive sequences and mapping to the genome -STAR v2.6.1d, peakcalling, CIMS and CITS--CTK v1.1.3, annotation and motif analysis--HOMER v1.1.3, Samtools 0.1.19, Picard 2.21.1, Bedtools v2.25.0
QC of raw data: check the raw data against the order form. The fastq document, every four lines represent a read, so the total number of rows must be the multiples of 4. For both ends seqeuncing data, read1 and read2 of the same sample should have the same number of rows.
Preprocessing of raw data: use gscripts, specifically demux_paired_end.py to run demultiplexing based on barcodes for demultiplex. All the sequences which do not contain barcode will be filtered out.  Cutadapt could help to remove most of the adaptors. After the pretreatment of raw data, the sequence left should be clean RNA target sequence
removal of repetitive seqeunces:use STAR to search Repbase from the corresponding species. For human, we use Human RepeatMasker version h38).
Genome mapping against reference genome : use STAR to map all those reads to reference human genome(UCSC human genome hg38). We use mapping parameter ML33 for all the analysis.
removal of PCR replicates:during construction of libraries, the random 5-mer and 10-mer, based on the unique sequences of those randomer, we could remove PCR replicates from PCR amplification during construction of libraries. 
Processing of reads: Use Picard java to sort the bam document, then use Samtools to extract Read2, all the follow.
